# LIONESS
---

Copyright ©2022. Institute of Science and Technology Austria (IST Austria). All Rights Reserved.

This file is part of the code developed for the paper "Dense synapse-level reconstruction of living brain tissue". This code is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under the terms of the MIT License.
 
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the MIT License for more details.
 
You should have received a copy of the MIT License along with this program. If not, see <https://opensource.org/licenses/>.

## OVERVIEW
---
The following code is used to prepare LIONESS data for pytorch_connectomics training/inference, and then to create segmentations from the affinity maps generated by the network.
Additionally, the code provides scripts for processing and validating the obtained segmentations.

Instructions for installing and using the **pytorch_connectomics** software can be found on the project website: <https://connectomics.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html> 
The configuration file for the pytorch_connectomics framework is provided.

## SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS
---
The software was tested on Linux system (Debian GNU/Linux 11 (bullseye)) 

## CONTENTS
---
- lioness --> base modules to handle computations on segmentations
  - segmentation
    - segmentation.py --> basic handling of segmentation
    - oversegmentation.py --> oversegmentation metric computations
    - watershed.py --> module responsible for running watershed at 2D and 3D levels
  - utils
    - utils.py --> utilities to load and write volume data in different formats
- tools/cli --> command line scripts to wrap functionality of the lioness package
  - clean_segmentation.py --> script to clean an automatic segmentation, removing small segments and segments with few slices
  - compute_ari_error.py --> script to compute the ARI error between a ground truth and an automatic segmentation
  - evaluate_oversegmentation.py --> script to compute several oversegmentation metrics used to evaluate different UNet configurations
  - preprocess_dataset.py --> script to preprocess the input datasets before training or inference
  - run_watershed.py --> script to run the watershed stage on affinity maps
  - show_seg_info.py --> script to print basic information about segmentations
- config
  - config.yaml --> example configuration file to use with the pytorch_connectomics framework to train a UNet or run inferences on test data


## INSTALLATION
---
In order to install dependencies, run the following commands:
```
git clone https://github.com/zudi-lin/zwatershed.git
cd zwatershed
git reset --hard c2a046f2510bf3972266a87b52724375fd70a160
cd ..

git clone https://github.com/zudi-lin/waterz.git
cd waterz
git reset --hard 76a41790de558e8dbab592211a1d568e33d413f8
cd ..

cd zwatershed
conda create -n lioness_test --file requirements.txt
conda activate lioness_test
cd ../waterz
conda install --file requirements.txt -c conda-forge
cd ..
patch -u zwatershed/setup.py -i zwatershed.patch
cd zwatershed 
python setup.py install
cd ../waterz
python setup.py install
cd ..
conda env update --file environment.yml
cd lioness
python setup.py install
cd ..
```
Installation takes about 30 minutes.

## DATA
---
lioness_data.tif --> demo LIONESS dataset.

segmentation.tif --> corresponding segmentation.

affinity_map.h5 --> output of the UNet that is used to run the watershed stage.

## DEMO
--- 
Each script can be tested using the following command line command:
1. preprocess_dataset.py
```
python preprocess_dataset.py lioness_data.tif lioness_data_preprocessed.tif
```
Expected output: One new file 'lioness_data_preprocessed.tif' with the preprocessed data.
Expected runtime: 5-10 seconds.

2. run_watershed.py
```
python run_watershed.py affinity_map.h5 . --wz-thres 0.4
```
Expected output: Two new files 'affinity_map-seg0.40.h5' and 'affinity_map-seg0.40.tif' with the resulting segmentation, generated using watershed threshold=0.4.
Expected runtime: 3 min.

3. evaluate_oversegmentation.py
```
python evaluate_oversegmentation.py segmentation.tif segmentation.tif
```
Note: for purposes of demonstration, the same segmentation file is used as the ground truth and as the evaluated file.
Expected output: stats.csv file with the resulting statistics.
Expected runtime: 15 sec.

4. clean_segmentation.py
```
python clean_segmentation.py segmentation.tif --size 3 --slices 3 --output segmentation_cleaned.tif
```
Expected output: One new file 'segmentation_cleaned.tif' with the processed segmentation.
Expected runtime: 1 min.

5. show_seg_info.py
```
python show_seg_info.py segmentation.tif
```
Expected output: information about the input segmentation file displayed in the terminal.
Expected runtime: 15-20 sec.

6. compute_ari_error.py
```
python compute_ari_error.py --seg segmentation.tif --gt segmentation.tif --out result.txt
```
Note: for purposes of demonstration, the same segmentation file is used as the ground truth and as the evaluated file.
Expected output: result.txt file with the ARI error value.
Expected runtime: 5 sec.

To use the scripts on your own data, replace the names of the demo files with your own I/O paths. 
A more detailed description of all the additional arguments is written in each individual python script.